brands/cedar-capital/spec/brand/01-visual-identity.md, before:

# Cedar Capital Visual Identity Guidelines

*Rooted in Family, Growing Your Future*

---

## Brand Story

Cedar Capital is a family-run real estate agency built on the belief that a home is more than a property—it's where families grow, memories are made, and legacies begin. Like the cedar tree that inspired our name, we stand tall through every season, providing shelter and stability for the families we serve.

We believe in generational thinking, not quarterly results. In relationships, not transactions. In community, not just commission.

---

## Logo

### Primary Logo

A stylized cedar tree with a subtle house silhouette integrated into its form, representing the union of nature, shelter, and family roots.

**Logo Versions:**
- **Primary:** Full color on light backgrounds
- **Reversed:** White version for dark backgrounds
- **Monochrome:** Single-color for special applications

**Clear Space:** Minimum clear space equal to the height of the "C" in Cedar

**Minimum Size:**
- Print: 1 inch width
- Digital: 80px width

---

## Brand Colors

### Primary Palette

**Cedar Forest Green (Primary)** — #1D4D3A
Our foundation color, representing growth, stability, and the enduring strength of family bonds. Used for primary text, headers, and key brand elements.

**Warm Cream (Background)** — #FAF8F5
A welcoming, soft backdrop that feels like home. Creates warmth and approachability.

**Rich Walnut (Accent)** — #5C4033
Earthy and grounded, representing the solid foundation every family deserves.

### Secondary Palette

**Hearth Gold (Highlight)** — #C4953A
Warm and inviting like firelight, used for CTAs, highlights, and moments of celebration.

**Soft Sage (Support)** — #A8BBA3
A calming accent that brings natural freshness and growth energy.

**Warm Stone (Neutral)** — #D4CCC4
Supporting elements, backgrounds for cards, and subtle divisions.

### Semantic Colors

**Trust Blue** — #2B5F8A
Success states, trust indicators, verification

**Warm Coral** — #D4725C
Gentle alerts, important notices (never alarming)

**Soft Amber** — #E8B860
Pending states, highlights, new features

---

## Color Philosophy

**Greens & Earth Tones** communicate:
- Stability and rootedness
- Growth and prosperity
- Trust and dependability
- Connection to nature and community

**Warm Neutrals** provide:
- Comfort and welcome
- Approachability
- Home-like atmosphere
- Visual breathing room

**Gold Accents** signal:
- Celebration and achievement
- Premium moments
- Key actions and milestones
- The warmth of family

---

## Typography

### Primary Fonts

**Playfair Display (Headings)**
Elegant, classic, and timeless—like the homes we help families find.

**Source Sans Pro (Body)**
Clean, highly readable, and approachable—communication should be clear and welcoming.

### Type Scale & Usage

**H1 — Playfair Display Bold**
36-48px | Use for: Page titles, hero statements
Example: "Where Families Find Home"

**H2 — Playfair Display SemiBold**
28-32px | Use for: Section headers, property titles
Example: "Featured Family Homes"

**H3 — Source Sans Pro SemiBold**
20-24px | Use for: Card titles, subsections
Example: "Our Family Promise"

**Body — Source Sans Pro Regular**
16-18px | Line height: 1.6
Use for: All body content, descriptions, property details

**Caption — Source Sans Pro Light**
14px | Use for: Metadata, helper text, disclaimers

### Typography Principles

- Prioritize warmth and readability
- Use generous line spacing for comfortable reading
- Headings should feel established and trustworthy
- Body text should feel conversational and clear
- Sentence case feels more personal than title case

---

## Spacing System

Based on an 8px unit for consistency:

- **4px** — Micro spacing (icon padding)
- **8px** — Tight spacing (inline elements)
- **16px** — Default spacing (form elements)
- **24px** — Comfortable spacing (card padding)
- **32px** — Section spacing (content blocks)
- **48px** — Major section breaks
- **64px** — Page-level divisions

### White Space Philosophy

Generous spacing creates a sense of calm and trust. A cluttered interface feels rushed and transactional. Our layouts should feel as open and welcoming as a family's front door.

---

## UI/UX Standards

### Corners & Shapes

**Border Radius:**
- **Small elements (buttons, inputs):** 8px
- **Cards:** 12px
- **Modals:** 16px
- **Profile images:** Full circle

Rounded corners feel approachable and friendly—never harsh or corporate.

### Shadows & Depth

**Subtle Elevation**
`box-shadow: 0 2px 8px rgba(29, 77, 58, 0.08)`
Use for: Cards, property listings

**Warm Glow**
`box-shadow: 0 4px 16px rgba(196, 149, 58, 0.15)`
Use for: Featured items, hover states

**Deep Elevation**
`box-shadow: 0 8px 24px rgba(29, 77, 58, 0.12)`
Use for: Modals, important overlays

### Buttons

**Primary Action**
Background: Cedar Forest Green (#1D4D3A)
Text: Warm Cream (#FAF8F5)
Hover: Slightly lighter green

**Secondary Action**
Background: Transparent
Border: Cedar Forest Green
Text: Cedar Forest Green
Hover: Light green background

**Accent Action (CTAs)**
Background: Hearth Gold (#C4953A)
Text: Rich Walnut (#5C4033)
Use for: Key conversions, contact actions

### Icons

**Style:** Rounded, friendly line icons
**Weight:** 1.5-2px stroke
**Size:** 20px or 24px standard

Icon themes:
- Home and shelter
- Family and community
- Nature and growth
- Trust and security

---

## Imagery Guidelines

### Photography Style

**Mood:**
- Natural, warm lighting
- Authentic family moments
- Welcoming home interiors
- Community connection
- Multi-generational gatherings

**Subjects:**
- Families of all types in homes
- Welcoming front porches and doors
- Warm interior spaces
- Neighborhood community scenes
- Cedar trees and natural elements

**Technical:**
- Warm color temperature
- Soft, natural lighting
- Comfortable depth of field
- Real moments, not staged stock

### Avoid

- Cold, sterile interiors
- Isolated individuals
- Overly luxurious staging
- Stock photo feeling
- Harsh shadows or lighting
- Empty, uninhabited spaces

### Image Treatment

**Overlays:** Warm tone overlay (10-20% sepia) for consistency

**Borders:** 12px radius on all images

**Aspect Ratios:**
- Property hero: 16:9
- Property cards: 4:3
- Agent portraits: 1:1 (circular crop)
- Lifestyle: 3:2

---

## Layout Principles

### Grid System

**Mobile:** 16px side margins, single column
**Tablet:** 24px margins, 2-column grid
**Desktop:** Max width 1280px, centered, 12-column grid

### Content Hierarchy

1. **Welcome/Hero** — Warm, inviting headline
2. **Value Proposition** — What makes us different (family focus)
3. **Featured Content** — Properties, testimonials
4. **Trust Elements** — Reviews, family stories
5. **Clear Actions** — Contact, schedule viewing

---

## Animation & Motion

### Timing

**Micro interactions:** 150-200ms
**Standard transitions:** 250-300ms
**Page transitions:** 400ms
**Celebration moments:** 600ms

### Easing

**Default:** `ease-out` for responsiveness
**Entrances:** Gentle fade-up
**Hover:** Subtle scale (1.02) and shadow increase

### Motion Principles

- Gentle and welcoming, never jarring
- Purposeful, supporting user orientation
- Celebratory for milestones (keys received, offer accepted)
- Respect for user attention and accessibility

---

## Accessibility Requirements

### Color Contrast

All text meets WCAG AA standards:
- Normal text: 4.5:1 minimum
- Large text (18px+ bold, 24px+ regular): 3:1 minimum

### Interactive Elements

- Minimum touch target: 44x44px
- Clear focus states with visible outlines
- Descriptive labels for all form elements
- Alt text for all images

### Inclusive Design

- Support for screen readers
- Keyboard navigation throughout
- Reduced motion option
- High contrast mode support

---

## CSS Variables

```css
:root {
  /* Primary Colors */
  --cedar-forest-green: #1D4D3A;
  --warm-cream: #FAF8F5;
  --rich-walnut: #5C4033;

  /* Secondary Colors */
  --hearth-gold: #C4953A;
  --soft-sage: #A8BBA3;
  --warm-stone: #D4CCC4;

  /* Semantic Colors */
  --trust-blue: #2B5F8A;
  --warm-coral: #D4725C;
  --soft-amber: #E8B860;

  /* Typography */
  --font-heading: 'Playfair Display', Georgia, serif;
  --font-body: 'Source Sans Pro', -apple-system, sans-serif;

  /* Spacing */
  --space-xs: 4px;
  --space-sm: 8px;
  --space-md: 16px;
  --space-lg: 24px;
  --space-xl: 32px;
  --space-2xl: 48px;
  --space-3xl: 64px;

  /* Border Radius */
  --radius-sm: 8px;
  --radius-md: 12px;
  --radius-lg: 16px;

  /* Shadows */
  --shadow-subtle: 0 2px 8px rgba(29, 77, 58, 0.08);
  --shadow-warm: 0 4px 16px rgba(196, 149, 58, 0.15);
  --shadow-deep: 0 8px 24px rgba(29, 77, 58, 0.12);
}
```

---

## Brand Applications

### Business Cards

- Forest green background with cream text
- Or cream background with forest green text
- Cedar tree logo mark
- Warm, welcoming tagline

### Property Signage

- Forest green with cream/gold accents
- "A Cedar Capital Family Home"
- Clear contact information
- QR code to property page

### Digital Presence

- Warm, welcoming hero imagery
- Clear property search
- Family testimonials prominent
- Easy contact options

---

## Do's and Don'ts

### Do

✓ Use warm, welcoming imagery
✓ Feature real families and communities
✓ Maintain generous white space
✓ Lead with family-focused messaging
✓ Create a sense of home and belonging
✓ Use gold accents for celebration moments

### Don't

✗ Use cold, corporate imagery
✗ Focus solely on property features
✗ Clutter layouts with information
✗ Use aggressive sales language
✗ Ignore accessibility requirements
✗ Make the brand feel transactional

---

## Design Philosophy Summary

Every visual element should communicate: **"You're home here."**

Cedar Capital's design is warm, grounded, and trustworthy—like a family friend who happens to be an expert in real estate. We design for comfort, not pressure. For connection, not conversion. For families finding their forever home.

**Rooted in family. Growing your future.**

Commit message:

Update Cedar Capital founding story with actual team
- Founded in 2025 by Kelly & Joe McVeen and Jennifer & Dan Lawless
- Two families bringing better construction methods and development
  processes to the real estate industry
- Updated all brand documents with consistent founding narrative

brands/cedar-capital/spec/brand/01-visual-identity.md, after:

# Cedar Capital Visual Identity Guidelines

*Rooted in Family, Growing Your Future*

---

## Brand Story

Cedar Capital was founded in 2025 when two families—Kelly and Joe McVeen, and Jennifer and Dan Lawless—sat around a table and asked: what if we could bring better ways of doing things to the real estate industry? With deep experience in construction methods and development processes, they saw an opportunity to help families find homes built with integrity, in communities designed to thrive.

We believe a home is more than a property—it's where families grow, memories are made, and legacies begin. Like the cedar tree that inspired our name, we stand tall through every season, providing shelter and stability for the families we serve.

We believe in generational thinking, not quarterly results. In relationships, not transactions. In community, not just commission.

---

## Logo

### Primary Logo

A stylized cedar tree with a subtle house silhouette integrated into its form, representing the union of nature, shelter, and family roots.

**Logo Versions:**
- **Primary:** Full color on light backgrounds
- **Reversed:** White version for dark backgrounds
- **Monochrome:** Single-color for special applications

**Clear Space:** Minimum clear space equal to the height of the "C" in Cedar

**Minimum Size:**
- Print: 1 inch width
- Digital: 80px width

---

## Brand Colors

### Primary Palette

**Cedar Forest Green (Primary)** — #1D4D3A
Our foundation color, representing growth, stability, and the enduring strength of family bonds. Used for primary text, headers, and key brand elements.

**Warm Cream (Background)** — #FAF8F5
A welcoming, soft backdrop that feels like home. Creates warmth and approachability.

**Rich Walnut (Accent)** — #5C4033
Earthy and grounded, representing the solid foundation every family deserves.

### Secondary Palette

**Hearth Gold (Highlight)** — #C4953A
Warm and inviting like firelight, used for CTAs, highlights, and moments of celebration.

**Soft Sage (Support)** — #A8BBA3
A calming accent that brings natural freshness and growth energy.

**Warm Stone (Neutral)** — #D4CCC4
Supporting elements, backgrounds for cards, and subtle divisions.

### Semantic Colors

**Trust Blue** — #2B5F8A
Success states, trust indicators, verification

**Warm Coral** — #D4725C
Gentle alerts, important notices (never alarming)

**Soft Amber** — #E8B860
Pending states, highlights, new features

---

## Color Philosophy

**Greens & Earth Tones** communicate:
- Stability and rootedness
- Growth and prosperity
- Trust and dependability
- Connection to nature and community

**Warm Neutrals** provide:
- Comfort and welcome
- Approachability
- Home-like atmosphere
- Visual breathing room

**Gold Accents** signal:
- Celebration and achievement
- Premium moments
- Key actions and milestones
- The warmth of family

---

## Typography

### Primary Fonts

**Playfair Display (Headings)**
Elegant, classic, and timeless—like the homes we help families find.

**Source Sans Pro (Body)**
Clean, highly readable, and approachable—communication should be clear and welcoming.

### Type Scale & Usage

**H1 — Playfair Display Bold**
36-48px | Use for: Page titles, hero statements
Example: "Where Families Find Home"

**H2 — Playfair Display SemiBold**
28-32px | Use for: Section headers, property titles
Example: "Featured Family Homes"

**H3 — Source Sans Pro SemiBold**
20-24px | Use for: Card titles, subsections
Example: "Our Family Promise"

**Body — Source Sans Pro Regular**
16-18px | Line height: 1.6
Use for: All body content, descriptions, property details

**Caption — Source Sans Pro Light**
14px | Use for: Metadata, helper text, disclaimers

### Typography Principles

- Prioritize warmth and readability
- Use generous line spacing for comfortable reading
- Headings should feel established and trustworthy
- Body text should feel conversational and clear
- Sentence case feels more personal than title case

---

## Spacing System

Based on an 8px unit for consistency:

- **4px** — Micro spacing (icon padding)
- **8px** — Tight spacing (inline elements)
- **16px** — Default spacing (form elements)
- **24px** — Comfortable spacing (card padding)
- **32px** — Section spacing (content blocks)
- **48px** — Major section breaks
- **64px** — Page-level divisions

### White Space Philosophy

Generous spacing creates a sense of calm and trust. A cluttered interface feels rushed and transactional. Our layouts should feel as open and welcoming as a family's front door.

---

## UI/UX Standards

### Corners & Shapes

**Border Radius:**
- **Small elements (buttons, inputs):** 8px
- **Cards:** 12px
- **Modals:** 16px
- **Profile images:** Full circle

Rounded corners feel approachable and friendly—never harsh or corporate.

### Shadows & Depth

**Subtle Elevation**
`box-shadow: 0 2px 8px rgba(29, 77, 58, 0.08)`
Use for: Cards, property listings

**Warm Glow**
`box-shadow: 0 4px 16px rgba(196, 149, 58, 0.15)`
Use for: Featured items, hover states

**Deep Elevation**
`box-shadow: 0 8px 24px rgba(29, 77, 58, 0.12)`
Use for: Modals, important overlays

### Buttons

**Primary Action**
Background: Cedar Forest Green (#1D4D3A)
Text: Warm Cream (#FAF8F5)
Hover: Slightly lighter green

**Secondary Action**
Background: Transparent
Border: Cedar Forest Green
Text: Cedar Forest Green
Hover: Light green background

**Accent Action (CTAs)**
Background: Hearth Gold (#C4953A)
Text: Rich Walnut (#5C4033)
Use for: Key conversions, contact actions

### Icons

**Style:** Rounded, friendly line icons
**Weight:** 1.5-2px stroke
**Size:** 20px or 24px standard

Icon themes:
- Home and shelter
- Family and community
- Nature and growth
- Trust and security

---

## Imagery Guidelines

### Photography Style

**Mood:**
- Natural, warm lighting
- Authentic family moments
- Welcoming home interiors
- Community connection
- Multi-generational gatherings

**Subjects:**
- Families of all types in homes
- Welcoming front porches and doors
- Warm interior spaces
- Neighborhood community scenes
- Cedar trees and natural elements

**Technical:**
- Warm color temperature
- Soft, natural lighting
- Comfortable depth of field
- Real moments, not staged stock

### Avoid

- Cold, sterile interiors
- Isolated individuals
- Overly luxurious staging
- Stock photo feeling
- Harsh shadows or lighting
- Empty, uninhabited spaces

### Image Treatment

**Overlays:** Warm tone overlay (10-20% sepia) for consistency

**Borders:** 12px radius on all images

**Aspect Ratios:**
- Property hero: 16:9
- Property cards: 4:3
- Agent portraits: 1:1 (circular crop)
- Lifestyle: 3:2

---

## Layout Principles

### Grid System

**Mobile:** 16px side margins, single column
**Tablet:** 24px margins, 2-column grid
**Desktop:** Max width 1280px, centered, 12-column grid

### Content Hierarchy

1. **Welcome/Hero** — Warm, inviting headline
2. **Value Proposition** — What makes us different (family focus)
3. **Featured Content** — Properties, testimonials
4. **Trust Elements** — Reviews, family stories
5. **Clear Actions** — Contact, schedule viewing

---

## Animation & Motion

### Timing

**Micro interactions:** 150-200ms
**Standard transitions:** 250-300ms
**Page transitions:** 400ms
**Celebration moments:** 600ms

### Easing

**Default:** `ease-out` for responsiveness
**Entrances:** Gentle fade-up
**Hover:** Subtle scale (1.02) and shadow increase

### Motion Principles

- Gentle and welcoming, never jarring
- Purposeful, supporting user orientation
- Celebratory for milestones (keys received, offer accepted)
- Respect for user attention and accessibility

---

## Accessibility Requirements

### Color Contrast

All text meets WCAG AA standards:
- Normal text: 4.5:1 minimum
- Large text (18px+ bold, 24px+ regular): 3:1 minimum

### Interactive Elements

- Minimum touch target: 44x44px
- Clear focus states with visible outlines
- Descriptive labels for all form elements
- Alt text for all images

### Inclusive Design

- Support for screen readers
- Keyboard navigation throughout
- Reduced motion option
- High contrast mode support

---

## CSS Variables

```css
:root {
  /* Primary Colors */
  --cedar-forest-green: #1D4D3A;
  --warm-cream: #FAF8F5;
  --rich-walnut: #5C4033;

  /* Secondary Colors */
  --hearth-gold: #C4953A;
  --soft-sage: #A8BBA3;
  --warm-stone: #D4CCC4;

  /* Semantic Colors */
  --trust-blue: #2B5F8A;
  --warm-coral: #D4725C;
  --soft-amber: #E8B860;

  /* Typography */
  --font-heading: 'Playfair Display', Georgia, serif;
  --font-body: 'Source Sans Pro', -apple-system, sans-serif;

  /* Spacing */
  --space-xs: 4px;
  --space-sm: 8px;
  --space-md: 16px;
  --space-lg: 24px;
  --space-xl: 32px;
  --space-2xl: 48px;
  --space-3xl: 64px;

  /* Border Radius */
  --radius-sm: 8px;
  --radius-md: 12px;
  --radius-lg: 16px;

  /* Shadows */
  --shadow-subtle: 0 2px 8px rgba(29, 77, 58, 0.08);
  --shadow-warm: 0 4px 16px rgba(196, 149, 58, 0.15);
  --shadow-deep: 0 8px 24px rgba(29, 77, 58, 0.12);
}
```

---

## Brand Applications

### Business Cards

- Forest green background with cream text
- Or cream background with forest green text
- Cedar tree logo mark
- Warm, welcoming tagline

### Property Signage

- Forest green with cream/gold accents
- "A Cedar Capital Family Home"
- Clear contact information
- QR code to property page

### Digital Presence

- Warm, welcoming hero imagery
- Clear property search
- Family testimonials prominent
- Easy contact options

---

## Do's and Don'ts

### Do

✓ Use warm, welcoming imagery
✓ Feature real families and communities
✓ Maintain generous white space
✓ Lead with family-focused messaging
✓ Create a sense of home and belonging
✓ Use gold accents for celebration moments

### Don't

✗ Use cold, corporate imagery
✗ Focus solely on property features
✗ Clutter layouts with information
✗ Use aggressive sales language
✗ Ignore accessibility requirements
✗ Make the brand feel transactional

---

## Design Philosophy Summary

Every visual element should communicate: **"You're home here."**

Cedar Capital's design is warm, grounded, and trustworthy—like a family friend who happens to be an expert in real estate. We design for comfort, not pressure. For connection, not conversion. For families finding their forever home.

**Rooted in family. Growing your future.**
